# Course3-Project
*Author: Paul Beuran (Github: PepperTiger)* - *Date: 08-30-2020*


## Description :
This repository is my submission to the programming assignement assigned in Course 3 - "Getting and Cleaning Data" of the Data Science class on Coursera. The purpose of this project is for training, and the goal was to :
  1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
  2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
  3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
  4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
  5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
  
The project is subdivised as:
  - `readme.txt`: File containing an explanation of the project (identical to this one)
  - `codebook.txt`: File containing the signification of each variables in `total` and `total_mean` tables, which can be found either by running a script or looking at their corresponding `.csv` files in the `Output` directory
  - Data: contains the data used for this project, the files used being :
    - `data/train|test/X_train|test.txt`: Files containing a 561 numerical values vector
    - `data/train|test/Y_train|test.txt`: Files containing a series of integers representing activities.
    - `data/features.txt`: File containing the column names for the 561 numerical values vector.
    - `data/activity_labels.txt`: File containing the activity labels corresponding to an integer value
    - `data/features_info.txt`: File containing the original codebook for the features variables.
  - Scripts: contains the scripts used for this project, including:
    - `scripts/run_analysis.R`: File containing the code used for this project.
  - Output: contains the scripts' ouputs, including:
    - `output/total.csv`: Tidied data, answering to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th instructions.
    - `output/total_mean.csv`: Tidied data, obtained from `total.csv`, answering the 5th instruction.
    


## Orignal data :
The data used were obtained from a telemetry study with Samsung Galaxy phones from 2012.  
Link: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones


## How to use :
  1. Download the project.
  2. Run the `run_analysis.R` script (write `source('~/Course3-Project/Scripts/run_analysis.R')` in console).
  3. Look at the `total` and `total_mean` generated data variables in the "Environment" tab.
  **OR**
  1. Look at the `total.csv` and `total_mean.csv` files in the `Output` folder already generated, or generated by running the script.
  
